Rs logging sdk (#778)
neuralmagic/deepsparse: examples/logging/README.md

# DeepSparse Logging

DeepSparse Logging provides operational teams with access to the telemetry needed to monitor a deployment. 

> For users seeking to put ML into production, these data are the raw materials that underpin the monitoring processes needed to create a system with consistently fresh and accurate predictions.

Reviewer: Nit: do not like the "raw materials" wording here. Feels odd. Maybe the "essential source of truth" or smth?

<p align="center">
     <img src="continual-learning.png"
          alt="Continual Learning Diagram"
          width="50%"
     />
</p>

> There are many types of downstream monitoring tasks that ML teams may want to perform. Some are easier to do (such as looking at system performance) and some are harder (looking at model accuracy requires manually labeling some data afterwards). Examples include:

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
There are many types of downstream monitoring tasks that ML teams may want to perform. The difficulty of the tasks varies from relatively easy (simple system performance analysis ) to challenging (assessing the accuracy of the system in the wild by manually labeling the input data distribution post-factum).  Examples include:
```

- **System performance:** what is the latency/throughput of a query?

> - **Data quality:** is there an error in the model pipeline?

Reviewer: I don't think the error in the model pipeline is a data quality problem. What do we want to say here?

Author: Model pipeline shouldn't be the word. I was thinking something more like the camera is broken or something that causes all 0s to be sent to the model. I will update

> - **Data distribution shift:** are the inputs and outputs from the system expected?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data distribution shift:** does the input data distribution deviates over time to the point where the model stops to deliver reliable predictions?
```

> - **Model accuracy:** what is the accuracy of the predictions vs human-labeled?

Reviewer: Maybe more broadly:
```suggestion
- **Model accuracy:** percentage of correct predictions that a model achieves?
```

> DeepSparse Logging is designed to provide maximum flexibility for users to extract whatever data is needed from a production inference pipeline into the logging system of their choice. 

Reviewer: Very important and powerful sentence, me gusta mucho.

## Metrics 
DeepSparse Logging provides access to two types of metrics:

> - **System Logging Metrics** give operations teams access to granual performance metrics, diagnosing and isolating deployment system health. Examples include CPU utilization and query latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **System Logging Metrics** give MLOps teams access to granular performance metrics for quick and efficient diagnosis of deployment system health. Examples may include CPU utilization and query latency.
```

     - See [below - UPDATE LINK](system-logging-metrics) for a full list of available metrics.

> - **Data Logging Metrics** give ML teams access to data at each stage of an ML pipeline, supporting downsteam tasks like measuring accuracy and data drift. Examples include raw inputs and projections thereof such as mean pixel value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data Logging Metrics** give ML teams access to the data that flows through each stage of an ML pipeline. This facilitates inspection of the data, understanding of its properties, detecting edge cases and possible data drift. Examples include logging raw data distribution, projections thereof (e.g. mean pixel value of an image batch), and features distribution.
```

     - See [below - UPDATE LINK](data-logging-functions) for a full list of built-in functions and how to create a custom function

## Configuration
DeepSparse Logging is configured via YAML files.

**System Logging** is *enabled* by default and all metrics are pre-defined. It can be disabled 

> globally or at the group level by adding the key-value pairs with `on` or `off` status.

Reviewer: Caution -> this is not something that we have implemented for 1.3.0. Can be cherry-picked easily though @bfineran

Author: Which item was not implemented (enabled/disabled by default, disabling globally or at group level)? 

Could you suggest the correct verbiage?

Reviewer: So the only thing which we add to the yaml file in this release is `logging` and `data_logging` (for endpoint). There is no functionality to change anything about system logs whatsoever. The only system logging that happens is the four latency measurements that are active by default (and cannot be turned off)

> **Data Logging** is *disabled* by default. A YAML configuration file is used to specify which data or functions thereof to log. 

Reviewer: We start talking about the functions here, I think it is appropriate to have introduced the metric functions at this point.

> There are 4 `stages` in the inference pipeline where Data Logging can occur:

Reviewer: By default. Maybe let's add that the user can overrule this convention.

````

> stages: pipeline_inputs >> engine_inputs >> engine_outputs >> pipeline_outputs

Reviewer: Let's add a short paragraph where we explain what those data structures are.

````

The following YAML format is used to specify the configuration:
```yaml

> loggers:

Reviewer: I am sorry @rsnm2, there were several tiny, ad-hoc changes made to the structure of a yaml file. Let me quickly present them here using the yaml below as an example:
```yaml
loggers: # loggers are now a dictionary logger_name -> logger_arguments
  python: # loggers that do not take any arguments can either look like this or python: {}
  prometheus: # also `prometheus: ` or `prometheus: {}` is a valid entry if we want to use the default arguments 
    port: 6100
    
system_logging:
    group: on/off # as mentioned before, let's be cautious, this is not supported atm

data_logging:
    some_pipeline_1/pipeline_inputs.images: # "/" separate the consecutive parts of the target identifier, "." separates target identifier from the property
        # first function
        - func: foo # if `foo` is a built-in function, we skip the "built-ins:" prefix, only adds noise
          frequency: 1000               
          # if no `target_loggers` are specified, we log to all loggers                
        # second function
        - func: path/to/custom.py:bar # or np.mean, torch.mean etc.
          frequency: 10000
          target_loggers: 
            - prometheus # must be List[str], where str is the name of the logger
        # ... list of as many functions as desired
```

Reviewer: @rsnm2 let's not forget that if the target contains a property, we can further access properties attributes by slicing/indexing/dict access:
```yaml
data_logging:
    some_pipeline_1/pipeline_inputs.images[0:2][0, :-1]['key_3'][5]: # etc
```

     - prometheus
     - custom_logger

# system_logging: on/off    # flag to turn all system logging on/off; defaults to on
system_logging:
    group: on/off           # flag to turn off a group; if omitted, defaults to on
    
data_logging:
    stage:
      mapping:
        # first function

>         - func: builtins:foo            # [REQUIRED STR] function identifier  (built-in or path to custom)

Reviewer: We have decided that a `builtins` metric function name is to be passed as an argument to `func` without prepending anything (to reduce the noise).

```suggestion
        - func: foo            # [REQUIRED STR] function identifier  (built-in or path to custom)
```

          frequency: 1000               # [OPTIONAL INT] logging frequency    (default: 1000 - logs once per 1000 predictions)
          target: all                   # [OPTIONAL STR] logger               (default: all)
        # second function
        - func: path/to/custom.py:bar  
          frequency: 10000
          target: prometheus
        # ... list of as many functions as desired
```

<details>
     <summary>Click for a tangible example YAML snippit</summary>

```yaml
loggers:
    - prometheus

>     - custom_logger

Reviewer: To create a custom logger, it needs at least one argument: `path`. Please look at the PR description:
https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/pull/768

> system_logging:

Reviewer: all of that not implemented :)

    deployment_details: off
    request_details: off
    prediction_latency: on 
    dynamic_batch_latency: off
    # resource_utilization: on      << omitted groups are turned on by default
    

> data_logging:

Reviewer: let's apply my previous remarks about the structure of `data_logging` also here.

     pipeline_inputs:
       mapping:

>          - func: builtins/max                        # built-in function

Reviewer: We need to remove `builtins` prefix and add a function name that actually exists (`max` doesn't):
https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/blob/main/src/deepsparse/loggers/metric_functions/built_ins.py

           frequency: 100                            # logs once per 100 predictions

>            target: prometheus                        # logs to prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

           
         - func: /path/to/logging_fns.py:my_fn       # custom function
           # frequency:                              # not specified, defaults to once per 1000 predictions

>            # target:                                 # not specified, defaults to all loggers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     engine_inputs:
       mapping:

>          - func: builtins/channel-mean               # pre-defined function (logs per channel mean pixel)

Reviewer: some comments as before

           frequency: 10                             # logs once per 10 predictions
           # target:                                 # not specified, defaults to all loggers

     # engine_outputs:                               # not specified, so not logged
     # pipeline_outputs:                             # not specified, so not logged
```
This configuration does the following system logging:
- Deployment Details, Request Details, and Dynamic Batch Latency groups are turned off 
- Prediction Latency and Resource Utilization groups are turned on

This configuration does the following data logging at each respective stage of the pipeline:
- Pipeline Inputs: `xxx` data is logged to Prometheus once every 100 predictions and a custom function called `my_fn` is applied once every 1000 predictions and is logged to all loggers.
- Engine Inputs: The `xxx` function is applied once per 10 predictions and is logged to all loggers.
- Engine Outputs + Pipeline Outputs: No logging occurs at this stage

</details>

## Loggers
Logging to Prometheus works out-of-the-box and users can add custom loggers.

### Prometheus Logger

> [@DAMIAN] - need your help here

Reviewer: Let's sync today on the goal of this paragraph and I will get to it asap.

### Custom Logger

> [@DAMIAN] - need your help here

Reviewer: Let's sync today on the goal of this paragraph and I will get to it asap.

       model: zoo:nlp/question_answering/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/squad/base-none
       batch_size: 1
       data_logging:
          - pipeline_inputs
               mappings:
                - func: builtins:sequence_length
                  frequency: 500
                  target: prometheus
                  
                - func: path/to/custom/metrics.py:fn2
                  # frequency:                  < defaults to every 1000 inferences
                  # target:                     < defaults to all
                  
             - engine_inputs
                mappings:
                - func: buildins:identity
                  frequency: 1000
                  target: custom_logger
                  
             # - engine_outputs                 < nothing logged
             # - pipeline_outputs               < nothing logged
             
     - task: question_answering
       route: /sparse/predict
       model: zoo:nlp/question_answering/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/squad/pruned95_obs_quant-none
       batch_size: 1
       # data_logging:                          < nothing logged at this endpoint 
```

</details>

### Pipeline Usage

> The `ManagerLogger` class handles logging and is passed as the `logger` argument to a `Pipeline`. `ManagerLogger` is initialized with the `config` argument, which is a path to a configuration file in the format described above. 

Reviewer: Warning: `ManagerLogger` does not exist (called `MultiLogger`).

For example, with the QA pipeline:

```python
from deepsparse import Pipeline

# SparseZoo model stub or path to ONNX file
model_path = "zoo:nlp/question_answering/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/squad/12layer_pruned80_quant-none-vnni"

# logger object referencing the local logging config file

> logger = ManagerLogger(config="pipeline-logging-config.yaml")

Reviewer: This is not supported atm.
In theory, any logger that they provide should work, not only the `Manager(Multi)Logger`.

I do not think that we should allow here the users to specify the loggers, which would later be directly fed to the pipeline. Maybe for simple use cases, they could directly plug here a `PythonLogger`. 

But for good performance / real-life usefulness, they'd need some logger composition, which should be handled by some helper function `logger_from_config(config: str)`

@bfineran

    model_path=model_path,
    logger=logger
)

my_name = qa_pipeline(question="What's my name?", context="My name is Snorlax")
```

<details> 
    <summary>Click to see pipeline-logging-config.yaml</summary>
    
```yaml
# pipeline-logging-config.yaml

loggers:
     -prometheus
     -custom_logger

system_logging:
     deployment_details: off
     request_details: off
     prediction_latency: on 
     dynamic_batch_latency: off
     # resource_utilization:               < not specified, so enabled by default

data_logging:
  - pipeline_inputs
       mappings:
        - func: builtins:sequence_length
          frequency: 500
          target: prometheus
        - func: path/to/custom/metrics.py:fn2
          # frequency:                    < defaults to 1/1000 inferences
          # target:                       < defaults to all loggers
   
   - engine_inputs
        mappings:
        - func: buildins:identity
          frequency: 1000
          target: custom_logger
          
     # - engine_outputs           < not specified, so nothing logged at this target
     # - pipeline_outputs         < not specified, so nothing logged at this target
```
</details>

> If no `ManagerLogger` is passed to a `Pipeline`, then logging is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no logger is passed to a `Pipeline`, then logging is disabled.
```

## Tutorials
There are serveral examples integrating Prometheus and DeepSparse logging available:
- [Server with Prometheus / Grafana](https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/tree/rs-logging-sdk/logging-sdk/tutorial-server-prometheus)
- [Pipeline with Prometheus / Grafana](https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/tree/rs-logging-sdk/logging-sdk/tutorial-pipeline-prometheus)
- [Monitoring while running Kubernetes](https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/tree/rs-logging-sdk/logging-sdk/tutorial-kubernetes-prometheus)
- [Custom Logger (S3 Bucket)](https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/tree/rs-logging-sdk/logging-sdk/tutorial-custom-logger)

## System Logging Metrics

> **TO BE UPDATED** ONCE WE HAVE THE LIST OF METRICS FOR 1.3

Reviewer: Afaik only latencies right?

### Metric Groups
The following metric groups are available:
- Prediction Latency (`prediction_latency`)
     
### Metrics
The following metrics are logged for each group:

#### Prediction Latency
Metric           |Metric Name              |Description                              |Granularity    |Usage  |Frequency      |
|---------------- |-------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------|-------|---------------|

> |Total Time       |`sl_pl_total_time`       |End-to-end prediction time               |Per Pipeline   |All    |Per Prediction |

Reviewer: what's `sl_pl`?

|Preprocess Time  |`sl_pl_preprocess_time`  |Time spent in pre-processing step        |Per Pipeline   |All    |Per Prediction |
|Engine Time      |`sl_pl_engine_time`      |Time spent in engine forward pass        |Per Pipeline   |All    |Per Prediction |
|Postprocess Time |`sl_pl_postprocess_time` |Time spent in post-processing step       |Per Pipeline   |All    |Per Prediction |

##  Data Logging Functions

> **TO BE UPDATED** ONCE WE HAVE LIST FOR 1.3

Reviewer: https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/blob/main/src/deepsparse/loggers/metric_functions/built_ins.py

  
### Built-in Functions

Built-in functions are predefined in DeepSparse. 
   
|Function Name  |Description                        |
|---------------|-----------------------------------|
|`mean_pixel_1` |Mean pixel value in first channel  |
|`mean_pixel_2` |Mean pixel value in second channel |
|`mean_pixel_3` |Mean pixel value in third channel  |

> They are applied in the form `func: builtins/function_name`. The YAML file would look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are applied in the form `func: function_name`. The YAML file would look as follows:
```

``` yaml
# config.yaml
  
loggers:
  prometheus:
    port:5555
  
data_logging:
  pipeline_inputs:
    mapping:
      - func: builtin:function

>       - frequency: 1000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        frequency: 1000
```

>       - target: prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
